# Jetpack compose-application
//APP DEVELOPED BY TEAM TITANS FOR THE JETPACK COMPOSE EVENT// INTRODUCTION Animal adoption in India is generally done by buying dogs/cats from pet shop or buying from the people who’s pets have had babies. There are very few people who adopt stray pets, abandoned pets. There are 76 lakhs of domestic animals entering animal shelters worldwide annually out of which 27 lakhs are euthanized. So, the number of euthanized animals can be reduced if people adopt pets instead of buying them from pet markets. The dog catchers in India behave roughly with dogs which is something we need to change. The inspiration of this project is a Android and iOS app for people to be more aware of the stray animals awaiting to get adopted around India. AIM AND OBJECTIVE The major objective of this app is to create a people friendly online platform where people come to know about various pet that require their help, so they can adopt them and take their pain away. Our app also provides a place where pet friendly people come together and share their experiences through uploading stories of how they rescued an animal. The main of this application are as follows :- 1. To help stray animals by helping them to find a kind – hearted owner. 2. On this platform people can also upload photos of stray animals around their colony who need help and people who want to adopt can contact them. 3. People can share their rescue stories with all the users on the app PROBLEM STATEMENT The current methods used to adopt or looking for pet is inefficient and haphazard. People distributed flyers to public and spread the news to the people around the area where the pet is lost [1]. When people print out flyers, it results into waste of paper and money as it does not have any positive outcome. People also post stories on social media platforms such as instagram, facebook. There are numerous scammers too who try to falsely claim the reward for returning the pet to their rightful owner. To save animals from cruelty a Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act was passed in 1960, however there were no strict laws in that act as animals could be used for lab experiments and entertainment[3]. Besides all this, animals on the streets are harassed by people by throwing stones just for entertainment. The numbers of stray animals have increased gradually over the years as people abandon their pets. Though there are many kind hearted people put still a platform is required where people come to know the sufferings of stray animals. TOOL USED Android Studio , Jetpack compose FUNCTIONALITY The app as suggest inputs your geographic location and based on that search the database of animal that needs a home and lets u adopt them directly from their previous owners or stray animals that have been present already in the database.

FUTURE SCOPE The app can be improvised by building a login page which will enable the checking of authenticity of users. A chat option will help in smooth communication. Further to app be made of a greater utility to pet parents by by turning it into a platform for service providers like vets, trainers, groomers to easily connect to their customer and pet parents made aware to the best facilities available 
